# finding-patterns-in-DNA-with-R

To examine the way viruses replicate, we use statistical procedures and pattern analysis to analyze the origin of replication and develop a life saving vaccine. In this study, our question asks: how do we find the significant complementary palindrome patterns in the human cytomegalovirus and determine if the cluster is a replication site? A complementary palindrome is a DNA sequence that reads in reverse as the complement of the forward sequence, which can indicate the origin of replication and in turn help virologists discover an effective vaccine. By using sampling and testing techniques, we can drastically reduce the time needed to make such a discovery, and tell the difference between chance occurrences and significant locations of palindromes.

Given data on 296 palindromes that were at least 10 letters long in the CMV DNA, which is 229354 letters long, our study first visually compares our sample palindrome distribution to the random uniform scatter, as well as the theoretical uniform distribution. Then, we examine the different types of spacings between our sample palindromes, such as between consecutive palindromes, between pairs of consecutive spacings, and between triplets of consecutive spacings. Next, we use a chi-squared test to examine the counts of palindromes for variable interval lengths. Finally, we use randomization to analyze the largest cluster of palindromes in a sub-interval for different interval sizes. At the end, we found that between the 90,000th and 108,000th pairs of DNA had the highest potential of containing the replication site.
